=== UCP600 Article 14 — Standard for Examination of Documents ===
=== 跟单信用证统一惯例第 600 号出版物 第十四条 — 单据审核标准 ===

【英文原文】

a. A nominated bank acting on its nomination, a confirming bank, if any, and the issuing bank must examine a presentation to determine, on the basis of the documents alone, whether or not the documents appear on their face to constitute a complying presentation.

b. A nominated bank acting on its nomination, a confirming bank, if any, and the issuing bank shall each have a maximum of five banking days following the day of presentation to determine if a presentation is complying. This period is not curtailed or otherwise affected by the occurrence on or after the date of presentation of any expiry date or last day for presentation.

c. A presentation including one or more original transport documents subject to articles 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 or 25 must be made by or on behalf of the beneficiary not later than 21 calendar days after the date of shipment as described in these rules, but in any event not later than the expiry date of the credit.

d. Data in a document, when read in context with the credit, the document itself and international standard banking practice, need not be identical to, but must not conflict with, data in that document, any other stipulated document or the credit.

e. In documents other than the commercial invoice, the description of the goods, services or performance, if stated, may be in general terms not conflicting with their description in the credit.

f. If a credit requires presentation of a document that is to be fulfilled by the presentation of a document other than a transport document, insurance document or commercial invoice, the credit must expressly state to which of the documents the presentation is to be fulfilled and how the content of the additional document is to be satisfied. If the credit does not so state, banks will accept the content of such document as presented if the content fulfills the function of the required document and otherwise complies with UCP 600.

g. A document presented but not required by the credit will be disregarded and may be returned to the presenter.

h. If a credit contains a condition without stipulating the document to indicate compliance with the condition, banks will deem such condition as not stated and will disregard it.

i. A document may be dated prior to the issuance date of the credit, but must not be dated later than its date of presentation.

j. When the addresses of the beneficiary and the applicant appear in any stipulated document, they need not be the same as those stated in the credit or in any other stipulated document, but must be within the same country as the respective addresses mentioned in the credit. Contact details (telefax, telephone, email and the like) stated as part of the beneficiary's and applicant's address will be disregarded. However, when the address and contact details of the applicant appear as part of the consignee or notify party details on a transport document subject to articles 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 or 25, they must be as stated in the credit.

k. The shipper or consignor of the goods indicated on any document need not be the beneficiary of the credit.

l. A transport document may be issued by any party other than a carrier, owner, master or charterer provided that the transport document meets the requirements of articles 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 of these rules.

【中文翻译】

a. 按指定行事的指定银行、保兑行（如果有的话）及开证行须审核交单，并仅基于单据本身确定其是否在表面上构成相符交单。

b. 按指定行事的指定银行、保兑行（如有的话）及开证行各有从交单次日起至多五个银行工作日用以确定交单是否相符。这一期限不因在交单日当天或之后信用证截止日或最迟交单日届至而受到缩减或影响。

c. 如果单据中包含一份或多份受第十九、二十、二十一、二十二、二十三、二十四或二十五条规制的正本运输单据，则须由受益人或其代表在不迟于本惯例所指的发运日之后的二十一个日历日内交单，但是在任何情况下都不得迟于信用证的截止日。

d. 单据中的数据，在与信用证、单据本身以及国际标准银行实务参照解读时，无须与该单据本身中的数据、其他要求的单据或信用证中的数据等同一致、但不得矛盾。

e. 除商业发票外，其他单据中的货物、服务或履约行为的描述，如果有的话，可使用与信用证中的描述不矛盾的概括性用语。

f. 如果信用证要求提交运输单据、保险单据或者商业发票之外的单据，却未规定出单人或其数据内容，则只要提交的单据内容看似满足所要求单据的功能，且其他方面符合第十四条d款，银行将接受该单据。

g. 提交的非信用证所要求的单据将被不予理会，并可被退还给交单人。

h. 如果信用证含有一项条件，但未规定用以表明该条件得到满足的单据，银行将视为未作规定并不予理会。

i. 单据日期可以早于信用证的开立日期，但不得晚于交单日期。

j. 当受益人和申请人的地址出现在任何规定的单据中时，无须与信用证或其他规定单据中所载相同，但必须与信用证中规定的相应地址同在一国。联络细节（传真、电话、电子邮件及类似细节）作为受益人和申请人地址的一部分时将被不予理会。然而，如果申请人的地址和联络细节为第十九、二十、二十一、二十二、二十三、二十四或二十五条规定的运输单据上的收货人或通知方细节的一部分时，应与信用证规定的相同。

k. 在任何单据中注明的托运人或发货人无须为信用证的受益人。

l. 运输单据可以由任何人出具，无须为承运人、船东、船长或租船人，只要其符合第十九、二十、二十一、二十二、二十三或二十四条的要求。

【关键审单要点】

1. 银行仅基于单据本身确定是否构成相符交单（表面审核原则）
2. 审单期限：从交单次日起最多5个银行工作日
3. 运输单据交单期限：发运日后21个日历日内，且不得迟于信用证截止日
4. 单据数据无须等同一致，但不得矛盾（不冲突原则）
5. 非发票单据的货物描述可用概括性用语，但不得与信用证矛盾
6. 信用证要求的单据未规定出单人或内容时，只要满足功能即可接受
7. 非信用证要求的单据将被不予理会
8. 未规定单据的条件视为未作规定
9. 单据日期可早于信用证开立日，但不得晚于交单日
10. 受益人和申请人地址可不同，但须在同一国家

【主题标签】
单据审核, 相符交单, 审单期限, 5个银行工作日, 21天, 运输单据, 数据矛盾, 表面审核
