=== UCP600 Article 20 — Bill of Lading ===
=== 跟单信用证统一惯例第 600 号出版物 第二十条 — 提单 ===

【英文原文】

a. A bill of lading, however named, must appear to:
i. indicate the name of the carrier and be signed by:
* the carrier or a named agent for or on behalf of the carrier, or
* the master or a named agent for or on behalf of the master.
Any signature by the carrier, master or agent must be identified as that of the carrier, master or agent.
Any signature by an agent must indicate whether the agent has signed for or on behalf of the carrier or for or on behalf of the master;
ii. indicate that the goods have been shipped on board a named vessel at the port of loading stated in the credit by:
* pre-printed wording, or
* an on board notation indicating the date on which the goods have been shipped on board.
The indication of the name of the vessel and the port of loading in the bill of lading is not required if the bill of lading indicates, by way of a pre-printed wording or an on board notation, that the goods have been shipped on board a named vessel at the port of loading stated in the credit.
The date of issuance of the bill of lading will be deemed to be the date of shipment unless the bill of lading contains an on board notation indicating the date of shipment, in which case the date stated in the on board notation will be deemed to be the date of shipment.
If the bill of lading contains the indication "intended vessel" or similar qualification in relation to the name of the vessel, an on board notation indicating the date of shipment and the name of the actual vessel is required.
iii. indicate shipment from the port of loading to the port of discharge stated in the credit.
If the bill of lading does not indicate the port of loading stated in the credit as the port of loading, or if the bill of lading contains the indication "intended" or similar qualification in relation to the port of loading, an on board notation indicating the port of loading as stated in the credit, the date of shipment and the name of the vessel is required. This provision applies even when loading on board or shipment on a named vessel is indicated by pre-printed wording on the bill of lading.
iv. be the sole original bill of lading or, if issued in more than one original, be the full set as indicated on the bill of lading.
v. contain terms and conditions of carriage or make reference to another source containing the terms and conditions of carriage (short form or blank back bill of lading). Contents of terms and conditions of carriage will not be examined.
vi. contain no indication that it is subject to a charter party.

b. For the purpose of this article, transhipment means unloading from one vessel and reloading to another vessel during the carriage from the port of loading to the port of discharge stated in the credit.

c. i. A bill of lading may indicate that the goods will or may be transhipped provided that the entire carriage is covered by one and the same bill of lading.
ii. A bill of lading indicating that transhipment will or may take place is acceptable, even if the credit prohibits transhipment, if the goods have been shipped in a container, trailer or LASH barge as evidenced by the bill of lading.

d. Clauses in a bill of lading stating that the carrier reserves the right to tranship will be disregarded.

【中文翻译】

a. 提单，无论名称如何，必须看似：
i. 表明承运人名称，并由下列人员签署：
* 承运人或其具名代理人，或者
* 船长或其具名代理人。
承运人、船长或代理人的任何签字必须标明其承运人、船长或代理人的身份。
代理人的任何签字心须标明其系代表承运人还是船长签字。
ii. 通过以下方式表明货物已在信用证规定的装货港装上具名船只：
* 预先印就的文字，或
* 已装船批注注明货物的装运日期。
提单的出具日期将被视为发运日期，除非提单载有表明发运日期的已装船批注，此时已装船批注中显示的日期将被视为发运日期。
如果提单载有"预期船只"或类似的关于船名的限定语，则需以已装船批注明确发运日期以及实际船名。
iii. 表明货物从信用证规定的装货港发运至卸货港。
如果提单没有表明信用证规定的装货港为装货港，或者其载有"预期的"或类似的关于装货港的限定语，则需以已装船批注表明信用证规定的装货港、发运日期以及实际船名。即使提单以事先印就的文字表明了货物已装载或装运于具名船只，本规定仍适用。
iv. 为唯一的正本提单，或如果以多份正本出具，为提单中表明的全套正本。
v. 载有承运条款和条件，或提示承运条款和条件参见别外（简式/背面空白的提单）。银行将不审核承运条款和条件的内容。
vi. 未表明受租船合同约束。

b. 就本条而言，转运系指在信用证规定的装货港到卸货港之间的运输过程中，将货物从一船卸下并再装上另一船的行为。

c. i. 提单可以表明货物将要或可能被转运，只要全程运输由同一提单涵盖。
ii. 即使信用证禁止转运，注明将要或可能发生转运的提单仍可接受，只要其表明货物由集装箱、拖车或子船运输。

d. 提单中声明承运人保留转运权利的条款将被不予理会。

【关键审单要点】

1. 必须表明承运人名称并由承运人/船长/其代理人签署
2. 签署必须标明身份（承运人、船长或代理人）
3. 代理人签署必须表明系代表承运人还是船长
4. 必须表明货物已在信用证规定的装货港装上具名船只
5. 已装船批注：如提单有"预期船只"或"预期装货港"，需批注实际船名/装货港
6. 发运日期：以已装船批注日期为准，无批注则以提单出具日期为准
7. 必须是正本提单或全套正本提单
8. 不得表明受租船合同约束（租船合同提单适用第22条）
9. 即使信用证禁止转运，集装箱运输的转运仍被接受
10. 银行不审核承运条款和条件的内容

【主题标签】
提单, 海运提单, 已装船批注, 承运人, 船长, 签署, 装货港, 卸货港, 转运, 集装箱, 租船合同, 正本提单
