=== UCP600 Article 16 — Discrepant Documents, Waiver and Notice ===
=== 跟单信用证统一惯例第 600 号出版物 第十六条 — 不符单据、放弃及通知 ===

【英文原文】

a. When a nominated bank acting on its nomination, a confirming bank, if any, or the issuing bank determines that a presentation does not comply, it may refuse to honour or negotiate.

b. When an issuing bank determines that a presentation does not comply, it may in its sole discretion approach the applicant for a waiver of the discrepancies. This does not, however, extend the period mentioned in sub-article 14 (b).

c. When a nominated bank acting on its nomination, a confirming bank, if any, or the issuing bank decides to refuse to honour or negotiate, it must give a single notice to that effect to the presenter.

The notice must state:
i. that the bank is refusing to honour or negotiate; and
ii. each discrepancy in respect of which the bank refuses to honour or negotiate; and
iii. (a) that the bank is holding the documents pending further instructions from the presenter; or
(b) that the issuing bank is holding the documents until it receives a waiver from the applicant and agrees to accept it, or receives further instructions from the presenter prior to agreeing to accept a waiver; or
(c) that the bank is returning the documents; or
(d) that the bank is acting in accordance with instructions previously received from the presenter.

d. The notice required in sub-article 16 (c) must be given by telecommunication or, if that is not possible, by other expeditious means no later than the close of the fifth banking day following the day of presentation.

e. A nominated bank acting on its nomination, a confirming bank, if any, or the issuing bank may, after providing notice required by sub-article 16 (c) (iii) (a) or (b), return the documents to the presenter at any time.

f. If an issuing bank or a confirming bank fails to act in accordance with the provisions of this article, it shall be precluded from claiming that the documents do not constitute a complying presentation.

g. When an issuing bank refuses to honour or a confirming bank refuses to honour or negotiate and has given notice to that effect in accordance with this article, it shall be entitled to claim a refund, with interest, of any reimbursement made.

【中文翻译】

a. 当按照指定行事的指定银行、保兑行（如有的话）或者开证行确定交单不符时，可以拒绝承付或议付。

b. 当开证行确定交单不符时，可以自行决定联系申请人放弃不符点。然而这并不能延长第十四条b款所指的期限。

c. 当按照指定行事的指定银行、保兑行（如有的话）或开证行决定拒绝承付或议付时，必须给予交单人一份单独的拒付通知。

该通知必须声明：
i. 银行拒绝承付或议付；及
ii. 银行拒绝承付或者议付所依据的每一个不符点；及
iii. (a) 银行留存单据听候交单人的进一步指示；或者
(b) 开证行留存单据直到其从申请人处接到放弃不符点的通知并同意接受该放弃，或者其同意接受对不符点的放弃之前从交单人处收到其进一步指示;或者
(c) 银行将退回单据;或者
(d) 银行将按之前从交单人处获得的指示处理。

d. 第十六条c款要求的通知必须以电讯方式，如不可能，则以其他快捷方式，在不迟于自交单之翌日起第五个银行工作日结束前发出。

e. 按照指定行事的指定银行、保兑行（如有的话）或开证行在按照第十六条c款iii项(a)或(b)发出了通知后，可以在任何时候将单据退还交单人。

f. 如果开证行或保兑行未能按照本条行事，则无权宣称交单不符。

g. 当开证行拒绝承付或保兑行拒绝承付或者议付，并且按照本条发出了拒付通知后，有权要求返还已偿付的款项及利息。

【关键审单要点】

1. 银行确定交单不符时，可以拒绝承付或议付
2. 开证行可自行决定联系申请人放弃不符点，但不延长审单期限
3. 拒付通知必须一次性发出，且必须包含：
   - 明确拒绝承付或议付的声明
   - 每一个不符点的具体说明
   - 单据处理方式（四选一）
4. 拒付通知必须在交单翌日起第5个银行工作日结束前发出
5. 银行未按规定行事则无权宣称交单不符（丧失拒付权）
6. 发出有效拒付通知后，银行有权要求返还已偿付款项及利息
7. 存候处理（hold documents）期间可随时退单

【主题标签】
不符单据, 拒付通知, 放弃不符点, 5个银行工作日, 退单, 存候处理, 丧失拒付权, 不符点
