=== UCP600 Article 28 — Insurance Document and Coverage ===
=== 跟单信用证统一惯例第 600 号出版物 第二十八条 — 保险单据及保险范围 ===

【英文原文】

a. An insurance document, such as an insurance policy, an insurance certificate or a declaration under an open cover, must appear to be issued and signed by the insurance company, an underwriter or their agents or their proxies.

b. If the insurance document indicates that it has been issued in more than one original, all originals must be presented.

c. Cover notes will not be accepted.

d. An insurance policy is acceptable in lieu of an insurance certificate or a declaration under an open cover.

e. The date of the insurance document must be no later than the date of shipment, unless it appears from the insurance document that cover is effective from a date not later than the date of shipment.

f. i. The insurance document must indicate the amount of insurance cover and be in the same currency as the credit.
ii. A requirement in the credit for insurance cover to be for a percentage of the value of the goods, of the invoice value or similar is deemed to be the minimum amount of cover required.
If there is no indication in the credit of the insurance cover required, the amount of insurance cover must be at least 110% of the CIF or CIP value of the goods.
When the CIF or CIP value cannot be determined from the documents, the amount of insurance cover must be calculated on the basis of the amount for which honour or negotiation is requested or the gross value of the goods as shown on the invoice, whichever is greater.
iii. The insurance document must indicate that risks are covered at least between the place of taking in charge or shipment and the place of discharge or final destination.

g. The credit should state the type of insurance required and, if any, the additional risks to be covered. An insurance document will be accepted without regard to any risks that are not covered if the credit uses imprecise terms such as "usual risks" or "customary risks".

h. When a credit requires insurance on "all risks" and an insurance document is presented containing any "all risks" notation or clause, whether or not bearing the heading "all risks", the requirement will be satisfied, even though the insurance document indicates that certain risks are excluded.

i. An insurance document may contain reference to any exclusion clause.

j. An insurance document may indicate that the cover is subject to a deductible or excess (franchise).

【中文翻译】

a. 保险单据，例如保险单或预约保险项下的保险证明书或者声明书，必须看似由保险公司或承保人或其代理人或代表出具并签署。

b. 如果保险单据表明其以多份正本出具，所有正本均须提交。

c. 暂保单将不被接受。

d. 可以接受保险单代预约保险项下的保险证明书或声明书。

e. 保险单据日期不得晚于发运日期，除非保险单据表明保险责任不迟于发运日生效。

f. i. 保险单据必须表明投保金额并以与信用证相同的货币表示。
ii. 信用证对于投保金额为货物价值、发票金额或类似金额的某一比例的要求，将被视为对最低保额的要求。
如果信用证对投保金额未做规定，投保金额须至少为货物的CIF或CIP价格的110%。
如果从单据中不能确定CIF或者CIP价格，投保金额必须基于要求承付或议付的金额，或者基于发票上显示的货物总值来计算，两者之中取金额较高者。
iii. 保险单据须表明承保的风险区间至少涵盖从信用证规定的货物接管地或发运地开始到卸货地或最终目的地为止。

g. 信用证应规定所需投保的险别及附加险（如有的话）。如果信用证使用诸如"通常风险"或"惯常风险"等含义不确切的用语，则无论是否有漏保之风险，保险单据将被照样接受。

h. 当信用证规定投保"一切险"时，如保险单据载有任何"一切险"批注或条款，无论是否有"一切险"标题，均将被接受，即使其声明任何风险除外。

i. 保险单据可以援引任何除外条款。

j. 保险单据可以注明受免赔率或免赔额（减除额）约束。

【关键审单要点】

1. 保险单据必须由保险公司、承保人或其代理人/代表出具并签署

2. 暂保单（Cover notes）不被接受

3. 保险单可代替保险证明书或保险声明书

4. 保险日期不得晚于发运日期（除非保险责任不迟于发运日生效）

5. 投保金额：
   - 如信用证有规定比例，按该比例计算（视为最低要求）
   - 如无规定，至少为CIF/CIP价值的110%
   - 如无法确定CIF/CIP，按议付金额或发票总值较高者计算

6. 保险币种必须与信用证相同

7. 风险区间至少涵盖从接管地/发运地到卸货地/最终目的地

8. "一切险"：只要保险单据载有"一切险"批注即可，即使列明除外风险

9. 保险单据可注明受免赔率/免赔额约束

10. 如以多份正本出具，所有正本均须提交

【主题标签】
保险单据, 保险单, 保险证明书, 预约保险, 投保金额, 110%, CIF, CIP, 一切险, 发运日期, 免赔率, 风险区间, 暂保单
